#summary A guide to the hood example application
#labels Featured

The project contains eclipse project files . So the easiest way to get an overview over hood is to just import it into Eclipse with "File / Import.. -> Existing Projects into Workspace". 

Here is a little overview over the files and directories in the project. if you don't
want to use eclipse you might like the ant build script provided.

{{{
WebContent
    WEB-INF
        config
            couchdb-config.xml      CouchDB server and database config
            couchdb-services.xml    CouchDBUpdater config that pushes the source views to
                                    the CouchDB server
            security-config.xml     Spring security
            services-config.xml     svenson JSON config, object services
            webmvc-config.xml       Spring WebMVC config. 
 
        designdocs                  source for CouchDB views
            ...
        lib                         runtime dependencies as jar files
            ...
        tags
            hood-fn.tld     Some JSP EL functions for hood
            link.tag        A link tag to avoid <c:url value=""/> for simple links
            page.tag        general page layout as JSP tag file
        views               contains the JSP views
            delObject.jsp   Delete Object?
            hood.jsp        main view
            login.jsp       login view
            newObject.jsp   new object view
            objects.jsp     non-JS view for objects
        web.xml             Servlet API web.xml file 
    image                   Images
        ... 
    index.jsp               redirects to the hood view
    script
        firebug-emu.js      emulates firebug if not present
        hood.js             main app script
        jquery-1.3.2.js     jquery 1.3.2
        json2.js            JSON api by Douglas Crockford (for those browser who don't do it natively)
    style                   CSS files
        ...
build               
    ...
build.properties        contains the version number
build.xml               ant build file
lib                     Testing and non-eclipse dependencies as jars
    ...
misc                    SVG source images for the Marker icons
    ...
src                     source code
    log4j.properties    Log4J configuration
    ...                 
test                    test source code
    ...
                                    
}}}

The project uses Spring WebMVC and Spring Security. The latter is currently not really useful, but was left in to show how it can be easily done.

Users not being interested in doing web applications might just want to look at the spring
configs couchdb-config.xml, couchdb-services.xml and services-config.xml if they're interested in the non-web spring configuration. couchdb-services contains a spring configuration for the CouchDBUpdater that can sync view sources with CouchDB. See `/hood/WebContent/WEB-INF/designdocs` for an example of how to do it.

All other couchdb related code is is `/hood/src/org/hood/HoodServiceImpl.java`, `/hood/src/org/hood/LocationServiceImpl.java` and `/hood/src/org/hood/auth/AppUserDetailsService.java` 